# Handling 404 Responses in Django
In Django, there are two primary ways to handle "404 Not Found" responses: `HttpResponseNotFound` and `Http404`.

- [`HttpResponseNotFound`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/request-response/#django.http.HttpResponseNotFound)
- [`Http404`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/http/views/#django.http.Http404)

## `HttpResponseNotFound`

`HttpResponseNotFound` is a subclass of `HttpResponse` with a status code of 404. You can return this response directly from a Django view when the requested resource is not found. This **allows you to send a 404 response while still keeping control of the response object**. You can add headers or modify the content before returning the response.

```python
from django.http import HttpResponseNotFound

def my_view(request):
    # ...
    if resource_not_found:
        return HttpResponseNotFound("Page not found")
```

## `Http404`

`Http404` is an exception class that you can raise in a Django view when the requested resource is not found. Django automatically catches this exception and sends a 404 response to the client. This is a more convenient way of signaling a 404 response **when you don't need to customize the response object**.

```python
from django.http import Http404

def my_view(request):
    # ...
    if resource_not_found:
        raise Http404("Page not found")
```

## From the docs

> When you return an error such as HttpResponseNotFound, you’re responsible for defining the HTML of the resulting error page. 
> For convenience, and because it’s a good idea to have a consistent 404 error page across your site, Django provides an Http404 exception. If you raise Http404 at any point in a view function, Django will catch it and return the standard error page for your application, along with an HTTP error code 404.
> In order to show customized HTML when Django returns a 404, you can create an HTML template named 404.html and place it in the top level of your template tree. This template will then be served when DEBUG is set to False.

In summary, use `HttpResponseNotFound` when you need more control over the response object and use `Http404` for a more convenient way to signal a 404 response.

**Disclaimer**: This content was generated by OpenAI's ChatGPT and edited by the user.
